[#3332] docs: Axon Framework 5 - Getting Started Guide (#3369)
AxonFramework/AxonFramework: docs/af5-app-from-scratch/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc

:navtitle: Introduction
:reftext: Building an Axon Framework 5 Application from Scratch

= Introduction

Welcome to the Axon Framework 5 Getting Started Guide!
This tutorial is based on the version `5.0.0-M1`.

> Building a new application from scratch can be daunting, especially when learning something new.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Building a new application from scratch can be daunting, especially when learning a new framework.
```

This tutorial will guide you through the various stages of development,
starting with creating your first project and explaining the capabilities of Axon Framework 5.

The Axon Framework 5 introduces a lot of changes,
so even if you are already familiar with Axon Framework 4, we still recommend you to go through this tutorial.

== What's New in Axon Framework 5?
Axon Framework 5 represents a significant evolution with major improvements to the framework's architecture:

> * Dynamic Consistency Boundary (DCB) - A revolutionary concept that allows more flexible event sourcing patterns overcoming traditional aggregates limitations. With this mind-shift you may organize your code more around features than entities. It plays nicely with Vertical Slice Architecture.

Reviewer: I had never heard of this Vertical Slice Architecture before until a week ago. I bet readers of this don't either. 

Maybe link to https://www.baeldung.com/java-vertical-slice-architecture?

```suggestion
* Dynamic Consistency Boundary (DCB) - A revolutionary concept that allows more flexible event sourcing patterns overcoming traditional aggregates limitations. With this mind-shift you can organize your code  around features than entities with ease, called xref:https://www.baeldung.com/java-vertical-slice-architecture[Vertical Slice Architecture].
```

Author: The first/most-quoted article is this one:
https://www.jimmybogard.com/vertical-slice-architecture/

But I've checked briefly this from baeldung and looks even better, little similar to what I have done :) They also have events between, just do not use commands. I will apply this one!

* Revisited Configuration - A new, more flexible configuration model.
* Improved Testing Support - Enhanced testing fixtures that allow you to verify your app configured as same as in the production code.

> * Java 21 Required - Taking advantage of the latest Java features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Java 21 baseline - Taking advantage of the latest Java features.
```

"Required" feels more like a restriction that a feature when put like that

> * Java 21 Required - Taking advantage of the latest Java features.

Author: I propose:
```
Async Native Architecture - The new Unit of Work is fully composable from async functions. With the removal of ThreadLocal usage, the framework now better supports asynchronous programming models like Project Reactor, Kotlin Coroutines, and the upcoming Java Fiber.
```

Whether you're new to Axon Framework or upgrading from version 4,
this tutorial will help you understand these new concepts through practical examples.

== About this tutorial
This tutorial will guide you through creating a "University Registration Application" using Axon Framework 5.

> We'll follow a test-first approach, implementing features using Vertical Slice Architecture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will implement features using Vertical Slice Architecture using Test-Driven Development.
```

Author: I prefer to use "Test First" name for that. From Martin Dilger book nad Adam Dmytriuk also say that he do "test first", not TDD, because I don't follow strictly the TDD methodology - the TDD doesn't influence my code/messages - I just specify my scenarios using GWT with messages and do not follow red->green->refactor lifecycle and one test after another. I think it's safer to stick to "Test First" because someone may say it's not TDD here. 

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/63425f1b-2d5a-4bc2-b421-497170a152c3)

You can either:

* Follow the steps in the tutorial to build the project from scratch
* Check out our link:https://github.com/AxonIQ/university-demo/[University Demo repository on GitHub,role=external,window=_blank] for the complete code

The result of the guide is a simple application, where you can play around with the concepts of Axon Framework 5.

> It's not production ready yet, because the Axon Framework 5 hasn't been released, it's in the milestone phase.

Reviewer: This line is redundant if we change the intro about the milestone a little bit (my other comment)

== Your feedback matters!

Keep in mind that Axon Framework 5 is currently in a milestone version, so it may be subject to change.
This is where you come in!
Your feedback is incredibly valuable as we refine the framework.

Because of that, your opinion is even more valuable to us.
Your input will help shape the future of event sourcing with Axon Framework!

> After playing around with the Axon Framework 5, please share your feedback here: [TBD FORM LINK].

Reviewer 2: Here's the link to the category! https://discuss.axoniq.io/c/axonframework/af5-milestones/38
